Out in the woods stood a nice little Fir Tree. The place he had was a very good one: the sun shone on him, as to fresh air, there was enough of that. And round him grew many large-sized comrades, pines as well as firs. But the little Fir wanted so very much to be a grown-up tree.

He did not think of the warm sun and of the fresh air. He did not care for the little cottage children. That ran about and prattled when they were in the woods looking for wild-strawberries. Theу often came with a whole pitcher full of berries, and sat down near the young tree and said. “What a nice little fir!". But this was what the Tree could not bear to hear.

At the end of a year he had shot up a good deal, and after another year he was another long bit taller. For with fir trees one can always tell by the shoots how many years old they are.

“Oh, were I but such a high tree as the others are,” sighed he. “Then I should be able to spread out my branches!. Then would the birds build nests among my branches. And when there was a breeze, I could bend with as much stateliness as the others!”.

Neither the sunbeams, nor the birds, nor the red clouds which morning and evening sailed above him, gave the little Tree any pleasure.

In winter, when the snow lay glittering on the ground. A hare would often come leaping along, and jump right over the little Tree. But two winters were past, and in the third the Tree was so large that the hare was obliged to go round it.

“To grow and grow, to get older and be tall,” thought the Tree. “That, after all, is the most delightful thing in the world!”.

In autumn the wood-cutters always came and felled some of the largest trees. This happened every year, and the young Fir Tree, that had now grown to a very comely size, trembled at the sight. For the magnificent great trees fell to the earth with noise and cracking. The branches were lopped off, and the trees looked long and bare, they were hardly to be recognised. And then they were laid in carts, and the horses dragged them out of the wood.

Where did they go to, what became of them?

In spring, when the swallows and the storks came, the Tree asked them. “Don't you know where they have been taken? Have you not met them anywhere?”

The swallows did not know anything about it, but the Stork looked musing, nodded his head, and said. “Yes, I think I know. I met many ships as I was flying hither from Egypt.

On the ships were magnificent masts. And I venture to assert that it was they that smelt so of fir.

“Oh, were I but old enough to fly across the sea!. But how does the sea look in reality? What is it like?”

“That would take a long time to explain,” said the Stork, and with these words off he went.

When Christmas came, quite young trees were cut down. Trees which often were not even as large or of the same age as this Fir Tree. Who could never rest, but always wanted to be off. These young trees, and they were always the finest looking, retained their branches. They were laid on carts, and the horses drew them out of the wood.

“Where are they going to?” asked the Fir. “They are not taller than I, there was one indeed that was considerably shorter. And why do they retain all their branches? Whither are they taken?”

“We know, we know” chirped the Sparrows. “We have peeped in at the windows in the town below!. We know whither they are taken!. The greatest splendor and the greatest magnificence one can imagine await them. We peeped through the windows, and saw them.

They are planted in the middle of the warm room and ornamented with the most splendid things: with gilded apples, with gingerbread, with toys, and many hundred lights!”.

“And then?” asked the Fir Tree, trembling in every bough. “And then, what happens then?”

“We did not see anything more, it was incomparably beautiful.”
